# BdAlgae
This project contains data and preliminary analyses of the algal communities in artificial ponds (infected with Bd and controls). 

The data were collected as follows: For each sample, 20ul of the sample were loaded onto a slide and covered with a 22x22mm cover slip. Three transects were viewed across the slide and species/taxa present were counted and tabulated. The procedure was then repeated for a second slide.

DATA
#####
The data folder contains the original data set in excel format - Bd_data_raw.xlsx.
This file has species abundance data as collected during microscopic examination. The second sheet in the file contains separate data from two slides that were viewed for each sample (three transects for each slide are summed up in each column). This raw data set may be useful if information on variation/heterogeneity within the samples needs to be examined. The first sheet contains the totals for each sample (adding data for each species from the two slides, or in other words, from six slide transects). 
Bd_data_clean.csv contains the data from the first sheet of the raw data file, excluding the row for Bd sporangia, which were not seen in many samples and are not algae so not relevant to this data set. Bd_data_clean can be read into R and modified further by the R script as needed.
Bd_data_group.csv is generated by the R script - here the data are aggregated by taxonomic group (family or order for the most part). For example, in each sample the abundances for Kirchneriella, Monoraphidium and Ankistrodesmus are summed up into a row called "Selenastraceae" because that is the family to which all three genera belong. This file may be useful as a starting point for other analyses.

SRC
####
This folder contains the R script (Bd_community.R) that modifies the Bd_data_clean data set, produces Bd_data_group, transposes the data for further community ecology analyses, and makes some basic plots based on those analyses - a cluster dendrogram and an ordination plot for PCoA. 

PLOTS
#####
This folder contains example plots generated by the R script.

